>> Sean Larkin: The first line of code
that executes typically web pack is node
API.
All of our CLIs,
any of the CLIs use the node API, right?
And this is the node API.
Essentially we instantiate a bunch of
things, specifically compiler, right?
That's your tappable instance.
And then we're literally just
gonna call compiler.run.
This is the single line of
when webpacks compiler starts.
Now we're also doing some other
things like taking options and
we applied defaults, right?
So people are like, webpack doesn't
have enough defaults, well guess what?
There are hundreds of properties we're
defaulting for you out of the box right?
And this is where we actually
implemented our modes, right?
Because we basically said,
if we're in, production or
if we're not, we're going to set
a bunch of different modes, right?
We're going to choose to order
modules by how often they occur,
topologically inside the chunks.
If not, we're not gonna do that.
And you save on build time.
So anyway, that's the options defaulter
and then we gotta webpack options apply.
And so this is where we actually
are applying each of the individual,
we take the configuration, right?
And I had just this was me
working in a branch, and so
I figured out how to get type
definitions for the entire config.
[LAUGH] But webpack options apply,
we literally take the config and
the compiler instance,
and we basically run
a giant switch statement, just saying
well, if it's this property, target.
We're gonna apply a different
set of templates, right?
A different set of templates for
the bundle, for the created code, right?
So, if you're in node,
we can't use a jsonP, right?
There's no DOM.
So when the target is node, or
electron main, or
anything that doesn't have DOM,
we're gonna actually apply
a different type of template to it.
This is the power of this kind
of modularity, encapsulation.
And we apply a different plugin that
then creates these different templates.
But then if you jump
all the way down here,
you're gonna actually see
a hook that's called Compiler.
Complier.hooks.entryoption.call.
So this is where the entry option
hook is triggered and if we
even did a source code search like, hmm,
what actually is listening on that hook?
So I can now just search
compiler.hooks.entryoption.
My goodness.
It's the entry option plug-in
which takes the entry property and
apply, creates this dependency, right?
So, we need to kick off the traversal and
resolve it.
And to do that,
you start with a dependency.
So, we basically say, hey,
this is a dependency.
And so, you need to go resolve it.
So, then we end up going to
the compilation where we call,
well technically if we step through
it like single entry plug in It's
then gonna set basically the template for
this type of dependency.
So it can be transformed.
And then we literally just
call compilation.addEntry.
So if I go to Compilation and
I search for addEntry, oops.
No, there we go.
[LAUGH] Now where is it?
Add entry.
>> Sean Larkin: So this is.
Now I'm not going to explain
everything that's happening here.
I don't think it's as valuable.
Because there's lots of edge cases and
stuff but we call add module chain.
Takes a call back and
at the end of it you get a module, right?
Because you took a dependency,
resolved it and
you get a module from the module factory.
But it's like add module and
add module chain calls factory.create.
So this is the normal module
factory that has a create function.
And this is actually calling hooks.
Before it resolves, there's a hook that
you can plug into and do crazy things.
Like change the entire request and go
fetch a different module if you wanted to.
But then the result is the resolver
resolving that information with
the data that you need.
And then it calls the factory function,
and it's going to create,
I even think if I search in here,
new module, new normal module.
There we go, it creates and
it's gonna pass it back in a hook.
So this .hooks.module is something
you can plug into to access that
newly created beautiful
shiny module abstraction.
And now of course, then we would
actually have to go back out four
levels of callbacks [LAUGH]
because asynchronous programming.
And we would end up eventually we
essentially call this function called,
add, let's see, dependencies,
it's like add module dependencies.
Or process module dependencies.
So this is where we basically,
we have to now parse through this code and
walk through it and we tie everything
together, create the graph relations.
But so long story short,
that's where this all happens.
And I think the most cool thing is that
now you that understand what the parser
instance is, look at all these hooks.
>> Sean Larkin: These are all hooks here.
And what webpack does
is as we walk the AST,
we fire an event for
every type of syntax we walk across.
So, it's not just the import statements.
It's anything, it's decorations,
it's any type, a variable.
We walk across a variable,
we're gonna admit it, an event about it.
And so literally, why we do this is
because if you look in our source code
under dependencies,
we have an individual parser
plugin that is listening to
that specific syntax, right?
So, a common js require dependency plugin,
or
parser plugin is just listening to
require, and you can even see it here.
We hook into the expression, parse.hooks.
Require and then the common js.
Sorry, sorry,
[LAUGH] I can't see the code,
there we go.
>> Sean Larkin: And so,
it's literally listening to it.
>> Sean Larkin: And then what
we do in this handler is we basically just
have this method called addDependency.
So that's literally how we
take on a module object.
We add the dependency instance and
tie it together.
So, yes, we literally have individual
plugins for every type of statement that
exists in webpack and so events are firing
in the thousands, the tens of thousands,
the twenty hundreds of thousands
of times when you run webpack,
because as for every piece of
the AST it's gonna fire an event.
So I think when I learned this,
my mind exploded into oblivion.
I was like, my gosh, this means
that I could listen to anything and
provide functionality or diagnostics or
you could do crazy stuff.
It's a little bit of abstraction and
it's not the easiest thing to do,
because you're having to create
a parser plugin, hook into the parser.
Also create a dependency factory and,
you know a dependency template for
it because the template transforms
that individual statement.
But, the fact that everything is so
modular and
extensible is I think what like really
made me super excited about this.
And you can see, each dependency
instance will have a template, and
I think it's in this
one specifically it's.
Let me.
If you just type template
in our source code.
Am I still there?
>> Sean Larkin: Hm.
Let's see.
Well, there's a whole bunch.
Template.
There we go.
I don't
know why it's not pulling them all up.
There they are.
Literally we have templates for
every one of those syntaxes
we need to transform, right?
And the reason behind this
is because doing AST.
We could modify the AST and
that's it, to the code we want.
But modifying the AST is slow, and
so doing string transformations with
templates is what we chose to do.
But anyway, there's a template for
everything.
You can plug into the template and
how it renders, that's all capable.
So the master way of learning
how to write plugins
that do anything is literally just looking
at what we do in our source code, right?
Because that's the best practise for
how we write plugins,
we dog food this entire system.